Caring for the needs of my family
is a source of great joy.
That was the life that was.
One drunk driver
and my wife was gone.
Our two children
had lost their loving mother.
The doctors were hopeful that my son
might regain the use of his legs,
but in the meantime,
we needed to adjust to this new situation.
My mum was such a support,
both emotionally and practically.
She helped with the children
while I went to work.
That way I was able
to care for the family’s physical needs.
It wasn’t easy.
I don’t know
what I would have done without her.
My fellow elders
were loving and considerate too.
They offered to lighten
some of my congregation responsibilities,
but I just wanted to keep busy.
I tried to keep on top of everything,
but spiritually things began to slip.
On more than one occasion,
I had to ask others
to cover my meeting parts.
Hello.
Hi, Simon.
Oh, hi, Oliver.
I’m so sorry.
I’ve been held up at work again.
Could you cover
the Treasures part for me tonight?
OK, no problem.
I’ll see what I can do.
Thank you.
I was just too tired
to prepare for family worship,
and the results were obvious.
Everything seemed overwhelming.
Even the simple things
were a struggle.
The meeting was great.
But Dad,
you missed Madison’s demonstration tonight.
I’m so sorry!
I had to work late.
Don’t worry, Dad.
Something had to give.
Maybe I needed to step aside as an elder.
I needed help.
So I reached out to a good friend, Simon.
I explained everything.
He really listened.
He empathized
and commended me for my efforts
and then shared Philippians 1:10 with me.
“. . . that you may make sure
of the more important things.”
Oliver,
it’s especially during challenging times
that we need to ‘make sure
of the important things,’
and the key to doing that is balance.
Come over here.
Simon used a simple illustration
that changed my perspective.
Just as a wheel can be out of balance,
a sudden change in our circumstances
can put us out of balance.
But skilled mechanics
can use small weights to rebalance the wheel.
The machine told Simon
where to position the small weight
so that the wheel could run smoothly again.
I got the point.
Regaining balance
might not involve big changes
but just a few smaller ones.
I understand.
Balance comes when we exercise faith.
Hebrews 11:6 reminded me that Jehovah
is “the rewarder
of those earnestly seeking him.”
And James 3:17 says
“the wisdom from above is . . . reasonable.”
I realized that my family’s spiritual needs
are one “of the more important things.”
And it’s OK to ask others for support.
Applying these Bible principles
helped me regain my joy.
Our circumstances may change,
but our Christian priorities do not.
They keep us anchored to our living hope.
My mum—
And we’ll be all together.
Thanks to Jehovah,
I was able to provide for my own
in the most important ways.